FINAL YEAR PROJECT DIARY
-------------------------

28/9/23 - Start of Project
Today, I am starting this project. I have finally fully recovered from a health issue I was having at the start of term, but I am still dealing with an ongoing emotional issues that I will have to push through to complete this project successfully (heartbreak).

01/10/23 - Setting Up LaTeX
I have been able to get Latex working for my Documentation, after having various problems with the version of LaTeX I installed not working with VSCode. I finally used Latex Live and was able to get it working, thus have created a test document to ensure it works. I have started researching and acquiring sources for my project, and will need to ensure I complete the Project Plan accordingly.

17/10/23 - Fixing my DIARY
Due to illnesses (that are still ongoing), I have not been able to properly update this diary to a satisfactory level. When my illness has rescinded, I will be able to start continuously updating this diary with my projects progress...

11/11/23 - Finally being able to get on with working
Have finally gotten illnesses and emotional issues under control, and have been able to start working on my project. I've used the sources I originally found to help me understand VaR for historical simulation and variance covariance model methods, whilst also using trial and error to create two test programs to test the methods. I need to start on the documentation for the project tomorrow with creating the latex for it and making sure to document my progress in understanding var as well.

12/11/23 - Setting Up Documentation
I copied over my documentation for the Project Plan, and used it as a baseline for me to establish what I need to be in my interim report. Taking brief reference from an email that Argyrios sent, and combining it with what I already had from my previous plan (timeline), as well as making sure I include everything needed from the mark scheme, I created the contents and headings for my documentation going forward, so I know what I need to add into each section up until the completion of the interim report. I now need to start populating the information before I continue to progress with the project too much, however for this week in my original plan I was supposed to research and understand back testing, however I think I will wait slightly so that I can catch up on documentation, since I really should have been documenting my testing on getting the VaR methods to work in the first place, so I will make sure to complete the prior sections (I think I'll skip on the introduction documentation at the moment too so I can focus more on getting the documentation done for the code, so that I can then progress with more coding).

13/11/23 - Back-testing
I said that I would do more documentation next, but I wanted to briefly read on back testing. Upon doing so, I saw that it didn't look to challenging, so I thought I'd quickly try and implement it for historical simulation. I was able to do so, which means I should be able to adapt it for the model method tomorrow quite easily, I also found that the back testing seemed to think my VaR calculated was accurate at the 5% level, but when changing it to 1% level it was not as accurate, so I will need to look into this further tomorrow as well, see if its to do with assuming that my returns are normally distributed, or if its something else.

14/11/23 - Combined Program for Both Methods, for Single Stock
At the start of the day, I implemented the back testing for the model building method, tested it to see if it worked, and saw that it would mainly still fail the back testing. I don't really know what I'm supposed to do with the back testing at the moment, but I will research more into it in the future. I then decided to make a program that I could input all the relevant details into to get VaR results, only accounting for a portfolio of just one stock type, I wanted to have it so the user could choose their one stock from a choice of multiple stocks, so I displayed the FTSE100, let the user choose that and input their portfolio amount, as well as other values, and at the end they would chose what VaR method they would want to use to calculate the VaR. The program displays the VaR and back tests it afterwards, but almost 90% of the time it would fail the back test. I assume this is due to these methods not being the most robust for calculating VaR, or for I'm performing the back testing wrong, but regardless everything else in the program seems to work, and this program can help me in the future when I implement a GUI, my initial one will most likely only handle one stock type, so I can use this program as a base for that.

24/11/23 - GUI + Finalising some statistical analysis + Documentation
Have not been able to update the last week or so due to illness again, have gotten around to continuing to work on the project. I have been using a reference book to research on how to use Kivy for the GUI, I am giving myself a few days to understand and implement that. I have been in contact with my supervisor, and they have helped me in better understanding the statistical analysis that I need to do when back testing, I still don't 100% have a grasp of it, but I know that I will need to be able to utilise it better in the future. Finally, I think I've finalised what I need to be in the documentation, and I really need to start on it soon, so I will do do that soon too hopefully.

29/11/23 - Initial GUI close to completion
I had been struggling to get started on the GUI, as in I have been working through the book/recourse I had on it but I still didn't know where to start. So I experimented with what I had learnt and managed to create an initial design based on a sketch I made for the application. With this initial design, which was not populated with any functionality, I have been gradually adding bit by bit of what I need to be able to generate my single stock VaR results. I know it's not multi-stock but after being able to create this initial GUI design and learning Kivy, I'll be much more confident in creating further kivy applications in the future. The final thing I need to do for it now is to have it actually generate the VaR results, display that it has done back testing and some indication of the significance of the result, as well as text box validation so it is easier for the user to use. Then I will have to quickly create my presentation, which will involve slides explaining VaR, what my aims are for the project as well as a showcase of what my final GUI can do, I think, I will need to go over the specification for it in more detail tomorrow. Still a lot to do and I'll have to work as hard as I can over the next week to ensure I complete it all appropriately.

30/11/23 - Implemented VaR and Back Testing and fixed a lot of problems
I was having issues when I used my laptop to create the application, since it broke all the formatting. Upon testing around, I discovered that depending on the monitor size (since they have the same resolution the two displays I use), it will change the size of the kivy application. I didn't want this, so I found out using DPI aware will mitigate this issue and allow to be more accessible everywhere. I implemented my VaR code from the command line program, and it works well. I also discovered that many of the stocks don't work from the FTSE or maybe the trackers are out of date. Regardless, I'm thinking of maybe displaying a different list of stocks, but I will decide on that tomorrow. I have implemented back-testing, but I don't think its all working properly and I need to use tomorrow morning to get it to be represented in some fashion on the application. After that I think I am happy with the initial GUI design and I will begin work on the presentation, since with the GUI complete, I can make sure to be able to show it off :))

02/12/23 - Completed GUI and Created presentation
After performing more test on the back-testing, I found that me thinking that it wasn't working properly was an outlier that gave a very large p-value, in general the back testing appeared to be very accurate and helped a lot with the statistical analysis and being able to disprove/approve the hypothesis's proposed with each VaR. I also added better verification to the text inputs, so that when you write any numbers or letters that don't make sense, it will just default the values. I also had previously commented on not being able to access many of the other stocks with yahoo finance, but I had seen evidence of all the FTSE100 being listed on the yahoo finance website, so after doing even more research I discovered that a lot of the stocks have a .L listed with their ticker, so I got it so that every time it would fail to download a stock, it would attempt to re-download the stock with the additional '.L', and this managed to work for every single FTSE Stock, so now the program feels more complete now that every stock is accessible. I managed to add a few more bits of verification, to help with some of the stocks returning bizarre results, so they can be accounted for in the future if it happens as well, and to make sure my program never crashes. Finally, I was able to create my presentation, I am happy with how it looks even though I did have to rush certain sections but it still looks great and I should be able to describe everything well. All I have to do now is most of my documentation, I had been severely behind on it, so I'll see if I can catch up. Also comment on forgetting to use a different branch for the GUI.

06/12/23 - Documentation
I have spent the last few days working hard on the documentation. I regret not being able to do this as I progressed with the project, since now it will be hard for me to show the development of certain aspects properly. Regardless, I do not have much more time before this is due, so I wouldn't have been able to say/show everything I wanted for each section anyway. I am sad that I have so much that I need to show off/write about within my report(s), but I feel that due to the circumstances with my health and emotional issues this term, I was unable to create work that I feel is satisfactory to the standard I hold myself to. I've been able to mostly complete the first section of my documentation, I think, and I've gotten onto where I am finally talking about code. I want to include a lot of screenshots to show things visually, but using latex is a lot slower then word, with you having to save your pictures in a certain directory, and then having to reference then within latex, with word just letting you copy and paste in comparison. Maybe I would've been able to do more consistent documentation alongside my coding if I was able to do it within word, I will keep that in mind for next term, maybe use word whilst I go along with the development, and then transfer it over to latex at the end. I will continue to work on the documentation tomorrow, and hopefully I will be able to complete it all by the end of the day, so I can submit it and then perform my presentation the following day.

07/12/23 - Finale
I have finally completed the documentation, I am unhappy with the fact I had to miss out on so many sections that I had planned, but in the end I'm rather blown away that I was able to consolidate and present so much in such a small amount of time. I'm proud of the result, of this report and the code I created this term, but I do plan to spend the majority of my holiday catching up on the time I feel that I lost for my project throughout the term due to my illnesses and heartbreak. I need to compile all the programs I think are relevant for my submission, and put them all together within a zip file to be submitted. I am also dreading my presentation, as I know I will be quite sleep deprived for it, but I am happy with the slides I made, and I hope to be able to justify my project well, especially after I was able to justify it so well within the interim report/documentation. There are many changes that I want to make, but for now I will finally take a bit of a break to recover from the excessive amount of work that I have put in before the deadline to achieve this. Thank you for reading for now...